Assembly-based structural variant calling using ABySS, Trans-ABySS and 
Genome Validator: Structural variant detection was performed using ABySS 
(v1.3.4) (Simpson et al, PMID:19251739)  and trans-ABySS (v1.4.10). 
Genome (WGS) libraries were assembled in single end mode using k-mer 
values of k56 and k76. The contigs and reads were then reassembled at 
k96 in single end mode and then finally at k96 in paired end mode. The 
meta-assemblies were then used as input to the trans-ABySS analysis 
pipeline (Robertson et al PMID: 20935650). Large scale rearrangements 
and gene fusions from RNA-seq libraries were identified from contigs 
that had high confidence GMAP (v2015-06-12) alignments to two distinct 
genomic regions.  Evidence for the alignments were provided from 
aligning reads back to the contigs and from aligning reads to genomic 
coordinates. Events were then filtered based on the number and types of 
supporting reads. Large scale rearrangements and gene fusions from WGS 
libraries were identified in a similar way, using BWA (v0.7.12r1039) 
alignments. Insertions and deletions were identified by gapped alignment 
of contigs to the human reference using BWA for WGS. 
Confidence in the event was calculated from the alignment of reads back 
to the event breakpoint in the contigs.  The events were then screened 
against dbSNP and other variation databases to identify putative novel 
events. An in-house tool, Genome Validator was used to determine 
compartment specific events. The structural variant calls for each 
patient from matched genome and RNA-seq samples were concatenated 
together and screened for each patient against matching tumour and 
germline alignments. This resulted in compartment specific structural 
variant events and putative somatic calls. The events were further 
filtered against a compendium of recurrent structural variants to remove 
recurrent false positives.
