Structural variant detection was performed using Trans-ABySS (v1.4.10). For 
RNA-seq, aligned reads were split into groups aligning to the positive 
and negative strands, and those with ambiguous strand alignment. 
Assemblies of alternate k-mers from k38-k74 were performed using positive 
strand and ambiguous strand reads as well as negative strand and ambiguous 
strand reads. The positive and negative strand assemblies were extended 
where possible, merged and then concatenated together to produce a 
meta-assembly contig dataset. The contigs and reads were then reassembled 
at k96 in single end mode and then finally at k96 in paired end mode. The 
meta-assemblies were then used as input to the trans-ABySS analysis 
pipeline (Robertson et al PMID: 20935650). Large scale rearrangements and 
gene fusions from RNA-seq libraries were identified from contigs that had 
high confidence GMAP (v2015-06-12) alignments to two distinct genomic 
regions.  Evidence for the alignments were provided from aligning reads 
back to the contigs and from aligning reads to genomic coordinates. Events 
were then filtered based on the number and types of supporting reads.  
Insertions and deletions were identified by gapped alignment of contigs 
to the human reference using GMAP. Confidence in the event was calculated 
from the alignment of reads back to the event breakpoint in the contigs. 
The events were then screened against dbSNP and other variation databases 
to identify putative novel events.
