Mapping Reads: Illumina HiSeq bcl files were processed using BCLConvertor 
v1.7.1. All reads from the prepared libraries that passed the Illumina 
Chastity filter were formatted into fastq files. The fastq files were 
aligned to human reference genome build37 (NCBI) using BWA (bwa-0.5.9-R16) 
with default parameters with the following exceptions: seed sequence: 40 
bpseed mismatch: 2, total mismatches allowed: 3. BAM files generated from 
alignment were preprocessed using GATK (v1.3-8-gb0e6afe) to recalibrate 
and locally realign reads. ITD Detection: We used ITD Assembler, a combined 
de novo assembly/algorithmic approach that takes the entire set of unmapped 
and significantly soft-clipped reads, and employs a De Bruijn graph assembly 
algorithm to select read sets that form cycles, indicative of repetitive 
sequence structures, in order to find reads that span duplications. Read 
sets that formed De Bruijn graph cycles are independently assembled using 
the Overlap Layout Consensus (OLC) methodology of the Phrap algorithm 
thereby alleviating the collapse of repeat sequences from De Bruijn graph 
assembly approaches. Resulting OLC assembled contigs are locally aligned to 
the reference sequence and the mapped location data from aligned soft-clipped 
reads and aligned-unaligned read pairs from that contig, are utilized to 
annotate the position of detected internal tandem duplications (ITDs). 
FLT3/ITDs were also verified by fragment length analysis utilizing Life 
Technologies GeneMapper software (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY). 
Variant allele fractions are reported as the size of the ITD peak divided 
by the sum of the wild type and ITD peaks.
